# Requirements
# Abstract
The major aim of the project is predict the epilepsy in few minutes advanced and alert them. Epilepsy is major problem to youngsters. This project solved the problem and measures the variation of the human body signals such as heart rate and movement of the body. For people who have been are suffering from epileptic seizures, a real time system is developed which is helpful in detecting such cases, is Smart epilepsy detection and alert system is an advanced technology by which developed is a electronic gadget. The electronic system presented here is a wearable device which predicts the occurrence of epilepsy in a few minutes advance. Using that kit we can save the life of the person who is really effecting with the condition. It will do the help in both the ways means not only checks the condition but also sends an SMS to the concerned doctor for the patient’s live saving sake. The device utilizes the heartbeat rate from human body to detect the occurrence of epilepsy. As soon as the device detects the symptoms, it transmits a message as both by buzzer alarm and the message to the guardian and nearby hospital.To implement all the above process, mainly four modules ARDUINO module, GSM module to send an SMS, GPS module to find the location and buzzer module to initimate the person.When the heartbeat sensor detects the heartrate to be varied and/or also the accelerometer sensor gives the movement of the body are changed to intimate the person will be attack by epilepsy using alarm then send the message to doctor or any relatives and GPS is used to track the exact location of the patients . 
# Introduction
Epilepsy is a paroxysmal attack, neurological disorder marked by sudden recurrent episodes of sensory disturbance, loss of consciousness, or convulsions, associated with abnormal electrical activity in the brain. Abnormal sensations, such as numbness, sensations like ants crawling on the skin, abdominal pain, sweating, increase in heart rate/pulse, changes in mood or emotion and  temporary inability to speak. Epilepsy is the fourth most common neurological problem and it is most commonly diagnosed in children and in people over 65. People suffering from epilepsy are referred to as PWE or Persons with Epilepsy.  Approximately 50 million people are affected by epilepsy globally and 80% of the peoplelive in low and middle income countries. Even after taking medication for a long duration to prevent epilepsy, 20% of people with epilepsy will develop seizures that are resistance to drugs.

In India, there are about 5 million people affected with epilepsy. The overall prevalence of epilepsy in India is 5.59-10 per 1000. More number of males getting affected by epilepsy was reported in a study conducted in India which prevalence in males (5.1 per 1000) was signiﬁcantly higher than that in females (2.2 per 100). The first epilepsy surgery in India was performed on 25 August 1952 at Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore. India spends approximately 68.75 billion (1.72 billion USD) for epilepsy treatment every year. While 60% of people in urban India consult a doctor after suffering a seizure, only 10% in rural India would do so.  Nearly 95% of the people with active epilepsy do not receive appropriate treatment for their condition, leading to large treatment gap.


Epileptic seizures are classified in to three groups, Generalized Onset seizures(Absence seizure, Tonic-conic seizures), Focal Onset seizures (simple focal seizures, complex focal seizure) and Unknown Onset seizures. Partial seizures arise from a discrete focus, such as a cortical malformation ortumor, without loss of consciousness. Primary Generalized seizures appear to originate from abnormal oscillations in thalamocortical loops.

