# M2-EmbSys
# Smart Paroxysm Prediction and Life Saver System
The major aim of the project is predict the epilepsy in few minutes advanced and alert them. Epilepsy is major problem to youngsters. This project solved the problem and measures the variation of the human body signals such as heart rate and movement of the body. For people who have been are suffering from epileptic seizures, a real time system is developed which is helpful in detecting such cases, is Smart epilepsy detection and alert system is an advanced technology by which developed is a electronic gadget. The electronic system presented here is a wearable device which predicts the occurrence of epilepsy in a few minutes advance. Using that kit we can save the life of the person who is really effecting with the condition. It will do the help in both the ways means not only checks the condition but also sends an SMS to the concerned doctor for the patient’s live saving sake. The device utilizes the heartbeat rate from human body to detect the occurrence of epilepsy. As soon as the device detects the symptoms, it transmits a message as both by buzzer alarm and the message to the guardian and nearby hospital.To implement all the above process, mainly four modules ARDUINO module, GSM module to send an SMS, GPS module to find the location and buzzer module to initimate the person.When the heartbeat sensor detects the heartrate to be varied and/or also the accelerometer sensor gives the movement of the body are changed to intimate the person will be attack by epilepsy using alarm then send the message to doctor or any relatives and GPS is used to track the exact location of the patients.
